hi this is John very very Victorian calm
welcome to the first video post on rear
Victorian com I wanted to thank every
for visiting the site it's been fun
interacting with all the fellow
collectors out there and I hope you keep
coming back and one of the ways that I
hope to do that is by adding some video
to the site make it a little more
visually enriched in a little more
appealing and this first video post is
about murkland brothers table that I
purchased last night at auction so I
late 19th century parlor table with a
lot of spiral turned elements and brass
hardware and unfortunately it's been
shabby chic by someone at some point in
its life so this video post is going to
be the before the follow up post will be
either in progress or a final view of
the table after it's been removed from
its shabby chic layer of paint so let's
go take a look at the table how it is
today and see what we got
here's the murkland the shabby märklin
fresh from the auction house this
morning still has the labels on the top
there hopefully you can see the
beautiful pink graining that someone has
painstakingly put on this murkland
brothers table let me take you down to
the feet here i did find out the
Griffins and lion as well as the ball
underneath that line which is made of
would have been painted over in gold so
we're gonna have to get that off of
there as well you can see there's a lot
of spiral turning that's typical of a
murkland brothers piece this table is a
smaller size than what I'm used to
seeing and it's narrower not quite as
long and even though it's a smaller
table it's amazingly heavy and you're
going to find out why when I flip this
table over since it was totally covered
in paint I had no real I real idea what
the construction was I just assumed it
was probably a wall not like my other
other tables but I was surprised by the
weight of the table and when I flipped
it over I found this great quarter sawn
oak grain here so if I was pleasantly
surprised with a quarter sawn murkland
brothers table which I you know feel are
actually more valuable interesting to
see the the carvings here and over here
do noting where they these balls in the
stretcher we're going to be placed
during construction there's also some
pencil marks on here someone has written
some names on here and I'm going to have
to try to figure that out both tabletops
have the pencil markings on them so next
time you see this table hopefully it's
going to be more that color you see
underneath there the golden oak
quarter-sawn oak so stay tuned and we'll
see it the next video post